Let's have a sneak peek into SpEL.
You might have come across many expression languages in programming.
What they essentially do is access data that is stored in objects or beans.
Similarly,
Spring Expression Language enables to query and manipulate
an object or object graphs at runtime,
making it possible to perform dynamic bean wiring in Spring applications.
Using SpEL,
we can write expressions as strings and parse them so that they can get
evaluated to whatever they are supposed to at runtime.
The results of such evaluations can then be used to
dynamically inject beans or values into other beans.
Let's have a look at SpEL syntax.
As I mentioned earlier, in SpEL we write expressions as strings.
In the context of using SpEL in plain Java code,
we can simply write any expression within double quotation marks.
If we are accessing defined variables in our expression,
we use a hash symbol in front of the variable.
In the context of using SpEL in metadata,
which is annotations and XML,
we add a hash symbol and a pair of curly braces inside
of which we write our expression.
Here are some examples of using SpEL syntax within plain Java Code,
meaning not in annotations or XML.
Here's how we write a literal string expression.
Inside double quotations, we put our string within single quotes.
Next, we have an expression that accesses a defined variable named #greeting.
Notice the hash symbol in front of it.
Say our #greeting variable is a string variable.
So in the next expression,
I'm doing a method call by calling the length() method on it.
Here's how we can use a simple mathematical operation
(multiplication) in an SpEL expression.
In the next expression, I've used a relational operator.
And, finally,
you can see that I've used a logical operator as well in this expression.
Now I will show you some examples of how SpEL syntaxes
are used in annotations and XML.
Here are two literal expressions, one string and the other integer.
Notice the curly braces.
In the next example, we call the country property of a bean called User.
Here's a very simple mathematical operation in an SpEL expression.
SpEL can, of course, be used with plain Java code.
However,
it is much more likely that you will use it in your
annotation or XML-based metadata.
However, it is worth looking at what really happens inside.
Inside of Spring,
a collection of classes are used to parse and evaluate Spring expressions.
In this code, the SpelExpressionParser class is used to create a parser object.
The parseExpression() method of it returns an SpEL expression object.
This object can then be used to evaluate an expression with a call to getValue() method.